1. What is the difference between AI, Machine Learning and Deep Learning?
Sorry No  ANSWER

2. What is Artificial Intelligence? Give an example of where AI is used on a daily basis.
 “Artificial Intelligence (AI) is an area of computer science that emphasizes the creation of intelligent machines that work and react like humans.” “The capability of a machine to imitate the intelligent human behavior.”
Google's Search Engine - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Google’s Search Engine – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Google’s Search Engine
One of the most popular AI Applications is the google search engine. If you open up your chrome browser and start typing something, Google immediately provides recommendations for you to choose from. The logic behind the search engine is Artificial Intelligence.

AI uses predictive analytics, NLP and Machine Learning to recommend relevant searches to you. These recommendations are based on data that Google collects about you, such as your search history, location, age, etc. Thus, Google makes use of AI, to predict what you might be looking for.

3. What are the different types of AI?
Reactive Machines AI: Based on present actions, it cannot use previous experiences to form current decisions and simultaneously update their memory.
Example: Deep Blue
Limited Memory AI: Used in self-driving cars. They detect the movement of vehicles around them constantly and add it to their memory.
Theory of Mind AI: Advanced AI that has the ability to understand emotions, people and other things in the real world.
Self Aware AI: AIs that posses human-like consciousness and reactions. Such machines have the ability to form self-driven actions.
Artificial Narrow Intelligence (ANI): General purpose AI, used in building virtual assistants like Siri.
Artificial General Intelligence (AGI): Also known as strong AI. An example is the Pillo robot that answers uestions related to health.
Artificial Superhuman Intelligence (ASI): AI that possesses the ability to do everything that a human can do and more. An example is the Alpha 2 which is the first humanoid ASI robot.
 4. Explain the different domains of Artificial Intelligence.
Domains Of AI - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Domains Of AI – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Machine Learning: It’s the science of getting computers to act by feeding them data so that they can learn a few tricks on their own, without being explicitly programmed to do so.
Neural Networks: They are a set of algorithms and techniues, modeled in accordance with the human brain. Neural Networks are designed to solve complex and advanced machine learning problems.
Robotics: Robotics is a subset of AI, which includes different branches and application of robots. These Robots are artificial agents acting in a real-world environment. An AI Robot works by manipulating the objects in it’s surrounding, by perceiving, moving and taking relevant actions.
Expert Systems: An expert system is a computer system that mimics the decision-making ability of a human. It is a computer program that uses artificial intelligence (AI) technologies to simulate the judgment and behavior of a human or an organization that has expert knowledge and experience in a particular field.
Fuzzy Logic Systems: Fuzzy logic is an approach to computing based on “degrees of truth” rather than the usual “true or false” (1 or 0) boolean logic on which the modern computer is based. Fuzzy logic Systems can take imprecise, distorted, noisy input information.
Natural Language Processing: Natural Language Processing (NLP) refers to the Artificial Intelligence method that analyses natural human language to derive useful insights in order to solve problems.
5. How is Machine Learning related to Artificial Intelligence?
Artificial Intelligence is a techniue that enables machines to mimic human behavior. Whereas, Machine Learning is a subset of Artificial Intelligence. It is the science of getting computers to act by feeding them data and letting them learn a few tricks on their own, without being explicitly programmed to do so.

Therefore Machine Learning is a techniue used to implement Artificial Intelligence.

Artificial Intelligence vs Machine Learning - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Artificial Intelligence vs Machine Learning – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

6. What are the different types of Machine Learning?
Types Of Machine Learning - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Types Of Machine Learning – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

7. What is -Learning?
The -learning is a Reinforcement Learning algorithm in which an agent tries to learn the optimal policy from its past experiences with the environment. The past experiences of an agent are a seuence of state-action-rewards:

What Is -Learning - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

What Is -Learning? – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

In the above state diagram, the Agent(a0) was in State (s0) and on performing an Action (a0), which resulted in receiving a Reward (r1) and thus being updated to State (s1).

8. What is Deep Learning?
Deep learning imitates the way our brain works i.e. it learns from experiences. It uses the concepts of neural networks to solve complex problems.

What Is Deep Learning - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

What Is Deep Learning? – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Any Deep neural network will consist of three types of layers:

Input Layer: This layer receives all the inputs and forwards them to the hidden layer for analysis
Hidden Layer: In this layer, various computations are carried out and the result is transferred to the output layer. There can be n number of hidden layers, depending on the problem you’re trying to solve.
Output Layer: This layer is responsible for transferring information from the neural network to the outside world.
9. Explain how Deep Learning works.
Biological Neurons - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Biological Neurons – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Deep Learning is based on the basic unit of a brain called a brain cell or a neuron. Inspired from a neuron, an artificial neuron or a perceptron was developed.
A biological neuron has dendrites which are used to receive inputs.
Similarly, a perceptron receives multiple inputs, applies various transformations and functions and provides an output.
Just like how our brain contains multiple connected neurons called neural network, we can also have a network of artificial neurons called perceptron’s to form a Deep neural network.
Deep Neural Network - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Deep Neural Network – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

An Artificial Neuron or a Perceptron models a neuron which has a set of inputs, each of which is assigned some specific weight. The neuron then computes some function on these weighted inputs and gives the output.
10. Explain the commonly used Artificial Neural Networks.
Feedforward Neural Network

The simplest form of ANN, where the data or the input travels in one direction.
The data passes through the input nodes and exit on the output nodes. This neural network may or may not have the hidden layers.
Convolutional Neural Network

Here, input features are taken in batch wise like a filter. This will help the network to remember the images in parts and can compute the operations.
Mainly used for signal and image processing
Recurrent Neural Network(RNN) – Long Short Term Memory

Works on the principle of saving the output of a layer and feeding this back to the input to help in predicting the outcome of the layer.
Here, you let the neural network to work on the front propagation and remember what information it needs for later use
This way each neuron will remember some information it had in the previous time-step.
Autoencoders

These are unsupervised learning models with an input layer, an output layer and one or more hidden layers connecting them.
The output layer has the same number of units as the input layer. Its purpose is to reconstruct its own inputs.
Typically for the purpose of dimensionality reduction and for learning generative models of data.
11. What are Bayesian Networks?


 A Bayesian network is a statistical model that represents a set of variables and their conditional dependencies in the form of a directed acyclic graph. 
On the occurrence of an event, Bayesian Networks can be used to predict the likelihood that any one of several possible known causes was the contributing factor.

Bayesian Network - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Bayesian Network – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

For example, a Bayesian network could be used to study the relationship between diseases and symptoms. Given various symptoms, the Bayesian network is ideal for computing the probabilities of the presence of various diseases.

12. Explain the assessment that is used to test the intelligence of a machine.
In artificial intelligence (AI), a Turing Test is a method of inuiry for determining whether or not a computer is capable of thinking like a human being.

AI Turing Test - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka
AI Turing Test – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Artificial Intelligence Intermediate Level Interview uestions
1. How does Reinforcement Learning work? Explain with an example.
Generally, a Reinforcement Learning (RL) system is comprised of two main components:

An agent
An environment
Reinforcement Learning - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Reinforcement Learning – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

The environment is the setting that the agent is acting on and the agent represents the RL algorithm.
The RL process starts when the environment sends a state to the agent, which then based on its observations, takes an action in response to that state.
In turn, the environment sends the next state and the respective reward back to the agent. The agent will update its knowledge with the reward returned by the environment to evaluate its last action.
The loop continues until the environment sends a terminal state, which means the agent has accomplished all his tasks.
To understand this better, let’s suppose that our agent is learning to play counterstrike. The RL process can be broken down into the below steps:

Counter Strike Example - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Counter-Strike Example – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

The RL Agent (Player1) collects state S⁰ from the environment (Counterstrike game)
Based on the state S⁰, the RL agent takes an action A⁰, (Action can be anything that causes a result i.e. if the agent moves left or right in the game). Initially, the action is random
The environment is now in a new state S¹ (new stage in the game)
The RL agent now gets a reward R¹ from the environment. This reward can be additional points or coins
This RL loop goes on until the RL agent is dead or reaches the destination, and it continuously outputs a seuence of state, action, and reward.
To learn more about Reinforcement Learning you can go through this video recorded by our Machine Learning experts.

Reinforcement Learning Tutorial | Reinforcement Learning Example Using Python | Edureka

In this Edureka video on “Reinforcement Learning Tutorial” you will get an in-depth understanding of how reinforcement learning is used in the real world.
2. Explain Markov’s decision process with an example.
 The mathematical approach for mapping a solution in Reinforcement Learning is called Markov’s  Decision Process (MDP). 
The following parameters are used to attain a solution using MDP:
Set of actions, A
Set of states, S
Reward, R
Policy, π
Value, V
Markov's Decision Process - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Markov’s Decision Process – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

To briefly sum it up, the agent must take an action (A) to transition from the start state to the end state (S). While doing so, the agent receives rewards (R) for each action he takes. The series of actions taken by the agent, define the policy (π) and the rewards collected define the value (V). The main goal here is to maximize rewards by choosing the optimum policy.

To better understand the MDP, let’s solve the Shortest Path Problem using the MDP approach:

 

Shortest Path Problem - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - EdurekaShortest Path Problem – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Given the above representation, our goal here is to find the shortest path between ‘A’ and ‘D’. Each edge has a number linked with it, this denotes the cost to traverse that edge. Now, the task at hand is to traverse from point ‘A’ to ‘D’, with minimum possible cost.

In this problem,

The set of states are denoted by nodes i.e. {A, B, C, D}
The action is to traverse from one node to another {A -> B, C -> D}
The reward is the cost represented by each edge
The policy is the path taken to reach the destination
You start off at node A and take baby steps to your destination. Initially, only the next possible node is visible to you, thus you randomly start off and then learn as you traverse through the network. The main goal is to choose the path with the lowest cost.

Since this is a very simple problem, I will leave it for you to solve. Make sure you mention the answer in the comment section.

3. Explain reward maximization in Reinforcement Learning.
The RL agent works based on the theory of reward maximization. This is exactly why the RL agent must be trained in such a way that, he takes the best action so that the reward is maximum.

The collective rewards at a particular time with the respective action is written as:

Reward Maximization Euation - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Reward Maximization Euation – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

The above euation is an ideal representation of rewards. Generally, things don’t work out like this while summing up the cumulative rewards.

Reward Maximization - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Reward Maximization – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Let me explain this with a small game. In the figure you can see a fox, some meat and a tiger.

Our RL agent is the fox and his end goal is to eat the maximum amount of meat before being eaten by the tiger.
Since this fox is a clever fellow, he eats the meat that is closer to him, rather than the meat which is close to the tiger, because the closer he is to the tiger, the higher are his chances of getting killed.
As a result, the rewards near the tiger, even if they are bigger meat chunks, will be discounted. This is done because of the uncertainty factor, that the tiger might kill the fox.
The next thing to understand is, how discounting of rewards work?
To do this, we define a discount rate called gamma. The value of gamma is between 0 and 1. The smaller the gamma, the larger the discount and vice versa.

So, our cumulative discounted rewards is:

Reward Maximization with Discount Euation - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Reward Maximization with Discount Euation – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

4. What is exploitation and exploration trade-off?
An important concept in reinforcement learning is the exploration and exploitation trade-off.

Course Curriculum
Machine Learning Engineer Masters Program
Exploration, like the name suggests, is about exploring and capturing more information about an environment. On the other hand, exploitation is about using the already known exploited information to heighten the rewards.

Exploitation & Exploration - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Exploitation & Exploration – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Consider the fox and tiger example, where the fox eats only the meat (small) chunks close to him but he doesn’t eat the bigger meat chunks at the top, even though the bigger meat chunks would get him more rewards.
If the fox only focuses on the closest reward, he will never reach the big chunks of meat, this is called exploitation.
But if the fox decides to explore a bit, it can find the bigger reward i.e. the big chunk of meat. This is exploration.
5. What is the difference between parametric & non-parametric models?
Parametric vs Non Parametric model - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Parametric vs Non Parametric model – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

6. What is the difference between Hyperparameters and model parameters?
Model Parameters vs Hyperparameters - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka
Model Parameters vs Hyperparameters – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

7. What are hyperparameters in Deep Neural Networks?
Hyperparameters are variables that define the structure of the network. For example, variables such as the learning rate, define how the network is trained.
They are used to define the number of hidden layers that must be present in a network.
More hidden units can increase the accuracy of the network, whereas a lesser number of units may cause underfitting.
8. Explain the different algorithms used for hyperparameter optimization.
Grid Search
Grid search trains the network for every combination by using the two set of hyperparameters, learning rate and the number of layers. Then evaluates the model by using Cross Validation techniues.

Random Search
It randomly samples the search space and evaluates sets from a particular probability distribution. For example, instead of checking all 10,000 samples, randomly selected 100 parameters can be checked.

Bayesian Optimization
This includes fine-tuning the hyperparameters by enabling automated model tuning. The model used for approximating the objective function is called surrogate model (Gaussian Process). Bayesian Optimization uses Gaussian Process (GP) function to get posterior functions to make predictions based on prior functions.

9. How does data overfitting occur and how can it be fixed?
 Overfitting occurs when a statistical model or machine learning algorithm captures the noise of the data. This causes an algorithm to show low bias but high variance in the outcome. 
Overfitting can be prevented by using the following methodologies:
Cross-validation: The idea behind cross-validation is to split the training data in order to generate multiple mini train-test splits. These splits can then be used to tune your model.

More training data: Feeding more data to the machine learning model can help in better analysis and classification. However, this does not always work.

Remove features: Many times, the data set contains irrelevant features or predictor variables that are not needed for analysis. Such features only increase the complexity of the model, thus leading to possibilities of data overfitting. Therefore, such redundant variables must be removed.

Early stopping: A machine learning model is trained iteratively, this allows us to check how well each iteration of the model performs. But after a certain number of iterations, the model’s performance starts to saturate. Further training will result in overfitting, thus one must know where to stop the training. This can be achieved by a mechanism called early stopping.

Regularization: Regularization can be done in n number of ways, the method will depend on the type of learner you’re implementing. For example, pruning is performed on decision trees, the dropout techniue is used on neural networks and parameter tuning can also be applied to solve overfitting issues.

Use Ensemble models: Ensemble learning is a techniue that is used to create multiple Machine Learning models, which are then combined to produce more accurate results. This is one of the best ways to prevent overfitting. An example is Random Forest, it uses an ensemble of decision trees to make more accurate predictions and to avoid overfitting.

10. Mention a techniue that helps to avoid overfitting in a neural network.
Dropout is a type of regularization techniue used to avoid overfitting in a neural network. It is a techniue where randomly selected neurons are dropped during training.

Dropout - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Dropout – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

The Dropout value of a network must be chosen wisely. A value too low will result in a minimal effect and a value too high results in under-learning by the network.

11. What is the purpose of Deep Learning frameworks such as Keras, TensorFlow, and PyTorch?
Keras is an open source neural network library written in Python. It is designed to enable fast experimentation with deep neural networks.
TensorFlow is an open-source software library for dataflow programming. It is used for machine learning applications like neural networks.
PyTorch is an open source machine learning library for Python, based on Torch. It is used for applications such as natural language processing.
12. Differentiate between NLP and Text mining.
Text Mining vs NLP - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Text Mining vs NLP – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

13. What are the different components of NLP?
Components Of NLP - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Components Of NLP – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Natural Language Understanding includes:

Mapping input to useful representations
Analyzing different aspects of the language
Natural Language Generation includes:

Text Planning
Sentence Planning
Text Realization
14. What is Stemming & Lemmatization in NLP?
Stemming algorithms work by cutting off the end or the beginning of the word, taking into account a list of common prefixes and suffixes that can be found in an inflected word. This indiscriminate cutting can be successful on some occasions, but not always.

Stemming - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Stemming – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Lemmatization, on the other hand, takes into consideration the morphological analysis of the words. To do so, it is necessary to have detailed dictionaries which the algorithm can look through to link the form back to its lemma.

Lemmatization - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka.png

15. Explain Fuzzy Logic architecture.
Fuzzy Logic Architecture - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Fuzzy Logic Architecture – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Fuzzification Module − The system inputs are fed into the Fuzzifier, which transforms the inputs into fuzzy sets.
Knowledge Base − It stores analytic measures such as IF-THEN rules provided by experts.
Inference Engine − It simulates the human reasoning process by making fuzzy inference on the inputs and IF-THEN rules.
Defuzzification Module − It transforms the fuzzy set obtained by the inference engine into a crisp value.
16. Explain the components of Expert Systems.
Expert Systems - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Expert Systems – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Knowledge Base
It contains domain-specific and high-uality knowledge.
Inference Engine
It acuires and manipulates the knowledge from the knowledge base to arrive at a particular solution.
User Interface
The user interface provides interaction between the user and the Expert System itself.
17. How is Computer Vision and AI related?
Computer Vision is a field of Artificial Intelligence that is used to obtain information from images or multi-dimensional data. Machine Learning algorithms such as K-means is used for Image Segmentation, Support Vector Machine is used for Image Classification and so on.

Computer Vision And AI - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Computer Vision And AI – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Therefore Computer Vision makes use of AI technologies to solve complex problems such as Object Detection, Image Processing, etc.

18. Which is better for image classification? Supervised or unsupervised classification? Justify.
In supervised classification, the images are manually fed and interpreted by the Machine Learning expert to create feature classes.
In unsupervised classification, the Machine Learning software creates feature classes based on image pixel values.
Therefore, it is better to choose supervised classification for image classification in terms of accuracy.

19. Finite difference filters in image processing are very susceptible to noise. To cope up with this, which method can you use so that there would be minimal distortions by noise?
Image Smoothing is one of the best methods used for reducing noise by forcing pixels to be more like their neighbors, this reduces any distortions caused by contrasts.

Image Smoothing - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Image Smoothing – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

20. How is Game theory and AI related?
“In the context of artificial intelligence(AI) and deep learning systems, game theory is essential to enable some of the key capabilities reuired in multi-agent environments in which different AI programs need to interact or compete in order to accomplish a goal.”

Game Theory And AI - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Game Theory And AI – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

21. What is the Minimax Algorithm? Explain the terminologies involved in a Minimax problem.
Minimax is a recursive algorithm used to select an optimal move for a player assuming that the other player is also playing optimally.

A game can be defined as a search problem with the following components:

Game Tree: A tree structure containing all the possible moves.
Initial state: The initial position of the board and showing whose move it is.
Successor function: It defines the possible legal moves a player can make.
Terminal state: It is the position of the board when the game ends.
Utility function: It is a function which assigns a numeric value for the outcome of a game.
Artificial Intelligence Scenario Based Interview uestion
1. Show the working of the Minimax algorithm using Tic-Tac-Toe Game.
There are two players involved in a game:

MAX: This player tries to get the highest possible score
MIN: MIN tries to get the lowest possible score
The following approach is taken for a Tic-Tac-Toe game using the Minimax algorithm:

Step 1: First, generate the entire game tree starting with the current position of the game all the way up to the terminal states.

Tic-Tac-Toe - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Tic-Tac-Toe – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Step 2: Apply the utility function to get the utility values for all the terminal states.

Step 3: Determine the utilities of the higher nodes with the help of the utilities of the terminal nodes. For instance, in the diagram below, we have the utilities for the terminal states written in the suares.

Tic-Tac-Toe - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Tic-Tac-Toe – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Let us calculate the utility for the left node(red) of the layer above the terminal:

MIN{3, 5, 10}, i.e. 3.
Therefore, the utility for the red node is 3.

Similarly, for the green node in the same layer:
MIN{2,2}, i.e. 2.

Tic-Tac-Toe - Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions - Edureka

Tic-Tac-Toe – Artificial Intelligence Interview uestions – Edureka

Step 4: Calculate the utility values.

Step 5: Eventually, all the backed-up values reach to the root of the tree. At that point, MAX has to choose the highest value:
i.e. MAX{3,2} which is 3.

Therefore, the best opening move for MAX is the left node(or the red one).
To summarize,

Minimax Decision = MAX{MIN{3,5,10},MIN{2,2}}
= MAX{3,2}
= 3